2.1 Detailed Literature Review

It has been observed from the survey of the that since the rise of application of machine learning techniques in various fields, various attempts of predicting the stock market have been carried out. It is interesting to note that although the prediction accuracy obtained throughout the works have been fairly moderate, the results from machine learning have mostly been proved to be much more accurate than the contemporary prediction techniques.
In [2], the researchers created a dataset of Apple Inc. stock prices using various attributes of the market like Date, Open, High, Low, Close and Volume of the stock at the time of observation. The aim of the study was to compare the working of Random Forest classifier and Multilayer Perceptron. From the results of [2], random forest performed better than the neural network method, contrary to the commonly held belief. The comparison of performance was done based on correlation coefficient, RMS and Relative Absolute Error. It could be inferred from [2] that neural network is not always the best method for stock market prediction.
A comparison is made between the performance of several machine learning algorithms on Bombay Stock Exchange data in [3]. The value of BSE is predicted based on historical market features such as commodity prices and forex. Out of the four algorithms, AdaBoost outperformed all other methods while Random Forest reported the least accuracy. The dataset used in this study was also collected over a period of time. 
It has been mentioned in [4] that time has a major role to play in the stock prices. This hypothesis is further tested using Yahoo Finance Dataset by selecting Opening and Closing price of the stock on the particular day and taking the Highest and Lowest price into consideration. The total volume of stock transaction is also taken as a feature. This study compares the performance of deep learning Long Short Term Memory (LSTM) architecture with a machine learning Regression model by taking R-Square value as the judging parameter. We infer two things from the results obtained. Firstly, the stock data is indeed dependent on time since LSTM model considers time-series values and outperforms regression model. Secondly, linear regression model is of less use because the stock data is non-linear in nature, as stated in [1]. 
In [5], a comparison is made between single layer perceptron, multi layer perceptron, radial basis function and SVM model. The dataset used for the study was collected over a period of time including relevant features like oil, gold, silver prices, forex, interest rates from banks and news articles regarding the stock prices. The news data was labeled as positive or negative depending on how it portrayed the future movement of the market. The aim of the study was predict the movement of the market as positive (increase in value) or negative (decrease in value). While all the models used for comparison gave similar results, multilayer perceptron reported the best accuracy while single layer perceptron and SVM gave similar accuracy. The performance of Radial basis function was in between these two. It can be inferred from this study that due to the complexity of the problem domain, simpler models such as SVM and single layer perceptron are bound to give limited results and hence models of higher complexity should be used for obtaining better results.
The performance of deep neural networks is compared in [1] on SPDR S&P 500 ETF dataset. Architectures with different number of hidden layers is trained and accuracy of each network is recorded on the training set. It is observed that with an increase in number of hidden layers from 12 to 35, there was a significant increase in the accuracy of the model. However, the accuracy of the model became stopped increasing and became almost constant as number of hidden layers became larger than 30. From this study we infer that there is a limit to the accuracy that can be obtained from deep neural networks and that use of highly complex models do not guarantee better results.
From the findings in the literature review, we conclude that in order to get accurate predictions of stock market, a complex function should be used. In addition to that, the function should be non linear in nature as the problem belongs to a non linear domain, as proved by [1].
